> * 原文地址：[Vue.js or React ? Which you would chose and why?](https://www.reddit.com/r/javascript/comments/8o781t/vuejs_or_react_which_you_would_chose_and_why/e01qn55/)
> * 原文作者：[evilpingwin](https://www.reddit.com/user/evilpingwin)
> * 译文出自：[掘金翻译计划](https://github.com/xitu/gold-miner)
> * 本文永久链接：[https://github.com/xitu/gold-miner/blob/master/TODO1/vuejs-or-react-which-you-would-chose-and-why.md](https://github.com/xitu/gold-miner/blob/master/TODO1/vuejs-or-react-which-you-would-chose-and-why.md)
> * 译者：
> * 校对者：

# Vue.js or React ? Which you would chose and why?

The difference are significant but it isn't just a case of JSX vs Templates or large API vs small API. The choices that React and Vue devs have made may have consequences down the road that you may not realise when you first pick up one or the other. The important question to ask when choosing a framework is 'where do I want my complexity'.

React and Vue can accomplish much the same thing, they just go about it in very different ways. From some of the responses I wonder if people have actually used both libraries for anything beyond simple components as that is when you really start to see the difference outside of relatively superficial differences.

As you may or not know, Vue pushes the idea of Single File Components. A file with a separate block for your template, script and styles. Some people find this comforting as there is an element of familiarity with traditional front-end development. I personally really like them, not because it 'looks like html' but because it creates structural landmarks on the page which make it quicker to navigate the file itself. React's JS/JSX combo works fine but things are a little more muddled (especially when you add styled components to the mix). You get used to it regardless. It is worth pointing out that the use of SFCs requires a build step, while Vue itself does not. I doubt this is a concern if you are considering React as an option because JSX requires a build step. if you need the ability to drop some script files into a project without a build step then React is not really an option unless you're willing to drop JSX and use `React.createElement()`. In this case, Vue would be the obvious choice.

The other criticism of Vue that it uses a DSL and has a large API surface area. Both of these things are true, at least it has a larger API surface area than React, it is quite small compared to some. These are separate but related concerns. The DSL that Vue uses is just another abstraction, just like SFCs are. They are designed to make you more productive and keep your code clean and declarative. JSX exists for the same reason, it is also a non-standard abstraction but allows you to leverage the full power of JavaScript within it. JSX is not JavaScript and never will be, airbnb's style guide prohibits the inclusion of JSX inside `.js` files for example as they are non-standard. They must go in their own `.jsx` file.

This is a personal choice, once you know Vue's DSL you can be more productive due to lots of helper methods and shorthand. On the flip side you have more Vue specific syntax to learn. Some people talk about cognitive overhead regarding learning new APIs and its a valid concern (although I would question it) but I would argue that React introduces significant cognitive overhead itself for the exact opposite reason, it's small API means we need to use relatively complex patterns in order to achieve certain things. I'll come to this. ~Lets not forget that React's API size is growing and continues to grow at a reasonable rate. We recently got the context API and we will get Time Slicing and Suspense at some point.~ And bear in mind that React is subject to change as well. The React team are responsive to the needs of React users and make changes where they think it makes sense. Context, Time Slicing, Suspense features have been added / will be added although it is likely that the React API will remain small and features will only be added when they make sense.

Also worth pointing out the Vue documentation is the gold standard for API docs and are incredibly clear. React docs are average but still fine, it's a smaller API so you shouldn't need them as much in principle. **This comment has been criticised but I stand by it, just because other documentation is shit doesn't make React docs great and they definitely pale in comparison to the Vue docs. I don't think the React docs are particularly bad, they're just about what you'd expect from a great OS library, average.**

Let's talk about abstractions though. All of these frontend frameworks are abstractions to a greater or lesser degree. Writing UI components in a declarative fashion is incredibly difficult with pure JS so React and Vue provide ways of doing this, along with a whole host of other helpful additions that allows us to bind State to the DOM without storing that state in the DOM and render changes in a performant manner.

All this said, you don't have to use Vue's templates and DSL if you don't want to. You can use JSX or the `createElement()` function just as you can with React. You can also use a template language of your choice such as Pug. Vue is very flexible in this regard, which I'm not sure people realise. Being able to write real UI components with SFCs, write renderless components with only JS (exporting only the script block with no template or styles) and then switch to JSX or render functions based on your needs give you an incredible amount of control over the way you work and can keep your code clean.

When you start writing more advanced components or want to write truly reusable components (especially components that wrap other components giving them additional behaviour) you will start to see some stark differences. With React you will need to make use of one or more of Higher Order Components, Render Props, or the Function as a Child Component pattern. There is nothing wrong with these patterns at all, they're great solutions to real problems but they add significant cognitive overhead (more so than learning new syntax does) as they are relatively complex patterns. In Vue they are mostly unnecessary due to the larger API exposing a number of methods of passing data around (look into Scoped Slots if you are interested). That said you can use these patterns or similar patterns in one form or another with Vue (scoped slots are similar to render props).

**This is not to say that that Vue is not as complex as React or that React is confusing in particular (scoped slots are at least as confusing as render props/ FaCC ) the important issue which some people have missed is that you need to reach for these patterns sooner when using React (many popular libraries make use of them), whereas scoped slots with Vue are not needed as often. There are a variety of reasons for this but, again, the important distinction is not what each library is capable of but rather how often you need to reach for more complex solutions to solve common problems.**

They are both powerful libraries with their own advantages and anything you can do with one, you can do with the other (pretty much). React has a much larger ecosystem and better tooling, there are more jobs for React devs. Vue is faster to get started and provides remarkable flexibility and an API that allows you to avoid some of the more complex patterns required when working with React and work in a more idiomatic 'Vue' way. Things like emitting events to parents rather than passing down callbacks as props. It can make your code cleaner but it is also an additional abstraction. Vue also has more core libraries that offer tight integration with Vue while working in much the same way that alternatives for other frameworks do. React has fewer core libraries (some standard functionality in Vue requires a library with React, like checking prop types) but more libraries in general (authored by the community). It's worth bearing in mind that as ecosystems grow you end up with lots of libraries doing broadly the same thing and most of the libraries I use with React or Vue have nothing to do with the library itself outside of styling (and React will ask you to rethink everything you know about styling, which isn't necessarily a bad thing), so your mileage may vary there. **In my opinion, the most significant impact of a large ecosystem is the likelihood that someone has already solved the problem you are now facing, this is the greatest benefit of React's popularity and is an important consideration.**

I use both, I like both. They both annoy me in different ways. They both have their own quirks that you have to get used to. If I had to pick one? I'd choose Vue. But that doesn't mean you should. Try them out for yourself and see what you think. Take any harsh criticism or excessive praise with a grain of salt as they are both really excellent libraries made by really smart people and you won't go far wrong with either. I've tried to be impartial and note the significant differences, I may have failed, some irritations are worse than others.

Edit: I forgot to mention vue-cli which is like create-react-app+. It's a really great tool and will soon have a visual UI, which is pretty interesting. So in some ways tooling for Vue is really amazing. I also forgot to mention that Typescript integration with Vue isn't perfect right now and you might have better mileage integrating TS with React. Food for thought.

Go and play.

> 如果发现译文存在错误或其他需要改进的地方，欢迎到 [掘金翻译计划](https://github.com/xitu/gold-miner) 对译文进行修改并 PR，也可获得相应奖励积分。文章开头的 **本文永久链接** 即为本文在 GitHub 上的 MarkDown 链接。


---

> [掘金翻译计划](https://github.com/xitu/gold-miner) 是一个翻译优质互联网技术文章的社区，文章来源为 [掘金](https://juejin.im) 上的英文分享文章。内容覆盖 [Android](https://github.com/xitu/gold-miner#android)、[iOS](https://github.com/xitu/gold-miner#ios)、[前端](https://github.com/xitu/gold-miner#前端)、[后端](https://github.com/xitu/gold-miner#后端)、[区块链](https://github.com/xitu/gold-miner#区块链)、[产品](https://github.com/xitu/gold-miner#产品)、[设计](https://github.com/xitu/gold-miner#设计)、[人工智能](https://github.com/xitu/gold-miner#人工智能)等领域，想要查看更多优质译文请持续关注 [掘金翻译计划](https://github.com/xitu/gold-miner)、[官方微博](http://weibo.com/juejinfanyi)、[知乎专栏](https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/juejinfanyi)。
